animal search UK was the UK's first
organization of its kind to introduce a
uniform search team for missing pets in
1999 its founder it's fallen police
officer Tom Watkins he has almost 15
years of combined investigation
experience of crime and more recently
for 10 of those years investigating
missing and stolen pets we now have the
largest specialist team of search
coordinators in Britain and deal with
approaching 1000 missing pets a month
either via our free websites or via our
search team as explained in the short
DVD our teams will often arrive in your
area and one of our marked search team
vehicles establishing a presence in your
neighbourhood straightaway and letting
people know that we're in the area
looking for your pets all of our
full-time team members will wear our
high visibility orange jackets and carry
an animal sir QK photo ID card the lines
of inquiry we follow up based on the
same kind of techniques used by police
officers when conducting any kind of
investigation work they will include
door-to-door inquiries and when we are
given permission we will carry out
searches of garden sheds outbuildings
areas of gardens where your pet may be
lying hidden and/or injured we always
aim to be as thorough as possible and
all team members are fully insured to
enter premises where permission is given
by the owner
we always combine our searches with a
professional advertising campaign using
our posters and leaflets with our logo
and more importantly our free-foam Oh
800 telephone number on the posters this
is connected to our call center based in
the UK and our team can deal with
sightings or information about your
where your pet might be or what has
happened to them lines are open and
staffed 24 hours a day 365 days a year
by our specialist expert team as well as
posters we will distribute leaflets to
everyone we speak to and whenever
possible leave one through the letterbox
where no one is home whilst on a search
is we encounter a pet that we think
might be yours we'll take a photo and
either text it or email it to you
straight away this is particularly
useful if you cannot be present at the
search area because of work commitments
mobility issues or in extreme cases you
might not be in the same area because
your pets traveled in a vehicle after
stowing away most team members will have
a radio to keep in contact with one
another at all times they are very easy
to operate and in the event of an
emergent message needing to be passed
they're quicker than a mobile phone to
rescue pets that might be trapped on a
flat roof for example we use ladders and
it's a situation and more dangerous use
a fire service to assist us
as well as parking our vehicles in your
street we may well reposition them to
places in your area that more people are
going to visit for example the local
shops here we can display more posters
and reach out to people from the wider
area who in turn may have seen your pets
we'll have some news about where they
may be we will display posters in shops
as well where we give them permission by
the shop owner to do so anywhere that
people got to go is an important place
to put a poster or leaflet
we always leave a poster of your missing
pets in our vehicles to people in the
area know who we're looking for
not only do research residential areas
but often countryside - woodland open
spaces and fields we always keep in
touch by radio and pass back any news to
you as soon as possible we hope we can
help you become reunited with your pet
like Apollo who's pictured here was
after our post campaign Lily pictured
here with her owner ty happy back
together after search in Bristol and
this is footage of Casper about to be
reunited with his owner Theresa after
being missing for 12 days and eventually
being discovered by a member of the
search team James on his first search
stuck on a flat roof a moment to
remember for the whole team
and one very happy owner and pet for
more details about how you can make use
of our search team - contact details
with the end of this video don't forget
to make use of our free website as well
where you can publish four photos of
your missing pets completely free of
charge this means that your pet can be
seen by numerous rescue center staff
vets and members of the public that
visit our site each day you can also
join as a free email volunteer that
means you'll be informed when other pets
go missing in your area by joining in
this way which incidentally cost nothing
at all then you will be doing your bit
to help other owners in your area as
they will be helping keep an eye out for
your pet - for more information and to
book a search with using our team then
please contact us via the contact us
page you our website
thank you from all of the animal search
UK team for watching this video